Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in the last few lectures I've explained how different video makers can use common setups to arrange
cameras lighting mikes and more in order to produce nice looking and easily repeatable videos.
Well in this lecture.
Well we got the third set up you can consider which is in fact one that goes back to the early days
of television and that is the talk show format now.
Talk shows seem like they've been around for a million years and in video form he actually had to go
back to the days of black and white TV to see those first shows where a host would sit behind a desk
and chitchat with some schmo trying to promote a new movie.
Fast forward today and well things really aren't that much different but it still makes sense that they
use this format because it works.
There's a couple twists on it and there's a lot of popular YouTube channels you might find that use
a similar version of this but they all kind of come from the same roots.
When you have people partaking in an engaging conversation about something you naturally get drawn in
if they're funny or if they share something poignant or entertaining in any way.
Well I can't help but watch.
It's kind of just simulating Hey there's two people talking in a room and you're just eavesdropping.
Well in the case of marketing videos the talk show does have its place as well.
If you can round up a group of experts to talk about a topic Well you've got yourself a talk show.
But in the age of return on investment and YouTube and clicks and shares and tweets and all of that
you probably wouldn't do a talk show.
One time you'd do it many times to cover a lot of different topics talk to lots of people and get the
most out of the equipment you bought.
So in our case it's more than just a talk show format.
It's really a video podcast.
So the first question becomes can you get everyone in the same room together or not.
Let's assume you can.
Well then you'll need a studio type setup with room for everyone could just be a really large room.
Or oftentimes you have to rent some space.
Normally talk shows of a host and guests.
So how many each will there be.
Well you can have one host and one guest one host multiple gas two hosts and one guest Fox News have
to talk to each other all day and that's actually a pretty popular format as well.
Just remember as we talked in the last couple of years every person on screen is going to need to be
well-lit miked up and shots so each individual person you add adds one more layer of complexity.
Let me give you an example of the talk show format.
Check out this video podcast.
It's a YouTube channel acle channel called Screen Junkies and it's produced in a talk show format screen
junkies produces a lot of videos about movies and TV from interviews and talk shows to those really
funny honest trailers that you probably have heard of.
And if you haven't sure you've heard the voice they use of the Furious.
Wow these are getting really forced.
Now in this case this is the movie fights series they make where they bring together a few movie bloggers
or podcasters to basically debate a topic one of the first shots is a wide shot to establish where everyone
is and who's there.
You can see everyone is evenly spaced around the desk they've got you might have a desk or table or
some other kind of set piece.
Maybe you want your host on one side and the guests and the other.
Figure out your layout first.
And then we can go from there now screen junkies then uses two other cameras to basically split the
room in half.
So here on cameral one you've got the host on the left and one of the guests.
Now they're being shot by a camera pointed straight at the two of them but almost always they'll be
looking toward the right where the other guests are.
And then on camera too you've got the other half of the room with the other two guests in the same type
of shot.
Again they're being shot straight on by the camera but to be looking towards the left now you obviously
do this because you want to focus in on who is talking and you also an alternate.
So that doesn't get boring.
You need to establish where everyone is.
You can't just use these two because that's really confusing you know what room you're in or who how
all is.
There are other people that are missing I can't even tell you right there you've got at least three
different cameras.
They have a wide shot and they have a camera for each side of the room that right there is actually
kind of difficult.
But again sometimes you can scrape together a lot of cameras from your friends and in a pinch you can
throw on your iPhone to be the wide angle shot.
Now if you tell the guests not to get up and walk around well then you can shoot a whole show like this
about the need of a camera operator sitting in each Cameron to move them around at all.
However we're limited to whatever angles and shots selections you set at the beginning of course in
this situation you might have to have a remote to start the cameras.
But those are usually pretty cheap.
You can get those for like 20 bucks and now it is a lot of cameras have Wi-Fi like the one I'm using
which connects to a phone so you can look at it and then started the case or the screen junkie's video
Well they have a camera operator on each camera and allows them to create a nice sequence of shots obviously
I mean I don't expect you guys have two camera operators so probably over the top but if you do become
successful with the series you're making or you interview experts.
Well maybe something worth considering at one point.
Now the two speakers on the right are talking and then it's clear that the guy on the right is going
to get his own turn.
So that is all to a shot from the movie and they're talking about it is always just a fade her memory
fade or transitional is different kinds of it and that dissolve is kind of where you have one image
and it kind of melts into the second one which you talk about more and we get to editing alternate transitions.
Well the still shot of the movie is up then the camera operator zooms in on the guy to get a close up.
Then they dissolve out of the still shot back to the camera and we see the guy by himself.
The closeup is nice because it adds some more focus to the speaker while they talk.
The problem is covering with the camera.
Now you could conceivably have additional cameras getting close ups of each speaker but that would be
kind of camera overload and just a management nightmare.
Instead you can use this approach with camera operators zooming in and out to get the shot they need.
Now does this sound like a lot of coordination.
Well yeah I mean it's certainly more elaborate than your standard interview or whisky type shot but
in the talk show format you can either record everything on each camera piece together or show after
the fact or you can make a change is alive but just making using someone switching between the cameras
that require unfortunately an operator and it's an additional level of equipment that you need.
So I wouldn't necessarily do that unless you really hate editing and you really shouldn't be worried
about doing that and editing it's quite easy.
So you have three cameras there all simultaneously recording then and editing you kind of just take
them sync them up and then at your computer decide I want to show this angle.
Now they're saying oh now this thing.
Now this angle it's really a lot less pressure and you don't have to be perfect to what you do because
you can do it later and you always get someone to help you fix it if you screw it up.
So that's how you would shoot a talk show like this.
But how exactly would you light it.
Well it's designed to make sure everyone is well lit.
You may end up meaning an array of lights above the set lighting for your hosts and guests more lights
behind the cameras can make sure the speakers don't have any shadows on them.
In this case you're probably going to have to have at least four lights.
Two of them will be pointing flat on to all of them.
And that's just going to light them generically and then you know two that are different angles trying
to catch the shadows that are created by the first one.
And then of course you'll probably also need to light up your set behind the speakers just to make them
stick out a little bit.
That was relatively easy because you can just put small lights in the back.
I think we talked before about these easy double LCD lights that are actually pretty cool because you
can set them on the ground they naturally sit up and then you can use that as like a background like
a bunch of torches use monitors.
Now since they can easily be used to show graphics and everything look nice however obviously you don't
need to do that now now audio in this situation is probably going to be handled by lavalier mikes or
in the case of screen junkies what they actually have is they've got Mike set up on the desk in front
of each person and it's really just a style question if you don't want the mike scene.
These guys are kind of like nerdy kind of tacky So it's perfectly fine to have these.
It's actually kind of almost like a chic thing to do because it makes you look like a podcast or a youtube
or if you didn't want to have them seeing what you could do is have two shotguns pointed at each side
and then have each person have its own lavalier.
And then after the fact you kind of pick which audio is the best and usually you'd end up doing is one
person one's talking you turn off the level of yours for two three and four and you do this all in editing.
Now the question here becomes does it make sense for you to do a big production like this.
Well days of screen junkies their product is a video series like this one so yeah they probably invested
a lot into this one specific shot and this is their product.
If you're using video for marketing purposes you might decide to take a different and much more affordable
approach to the talk show.
And that would be just like a web cam driven approach.
Now instead of building shooting and lighting a set lots of actors just assemble experts and put together
shows using webcams and screen recording software.
For example social media marketing talk is essentially a talk show but without the set of cameras lighting
and pretty much everything else all the speakers just use their own webcams might themselves up with
whatever mikes they've got.
And well everyone sees where it all ends up.
The video and audio quality could be garbage depending on how much Wi-Fi or bandwidth each person has
or the quality of the platform they're using.
So it's kind of a hodgepodge.
Here's my best advice if you want to do a Skype interview and or a Google Hangout interview like this.
What I strongly suggest doing is that you coordinate with the person beforehand such that when they're
recording their audio and the recording their video they're not recording what comes through Skype because
Skype has to go through bandwidth and it can be delayed and it can be ugly and it can be pixilated.
Instead get them to use a basic screen cast off or you can use like if you're on a Mac screen flow is
really easy to use and it's a good trial if you're on a PC cam Tasia is fantastic what you can do is
then just record locally on the hard drive their video and their audio.
And that's got to be perfect because it doesn't have to go through the inter-webs and the terrible bandwidth
or whatever Skype has all sorts of issues.
Then what happens is you ask them to send the file afterwards and you sync it up.
It's a lot more work but it will dramatically improve the quality of your interview.
What I just described you where each person saves their own stuff locally and then syncs them together
it's it actually a double ender in podcasting because you just use Skype to understand the other person
saying See you can you can respond but then you all have local versions that are much better.
Now of course you don't need to go to these ridiculous lengths.
If you don't think that your interview needs to be super high quality it's perfectly fine for months
like this prove you don't necessarily need a state of the art studio or expensive equipment to produce
a show that people will listen or subscribe to.
Really all comes down to what you're trying to get out of the production.
As a marketer you want to share information or expertise.
Does that require the presence of outside experts.
Are those outside experts easier to get if they can chat from the comfort of their own home.
Or maybe they're more enticed by having a larger production with the quality of their insights really
be affected by the way they look or sound on screen.
For a lot of people this line of questioning makes a solid case for going with the Web camera out with
you talk show especially when you can save thousands of dollars and a whole lot of space.
So which approach is better.
Well quality wise from a video audio and everything standpoint clearly that studio approach is going
to be better.
Everything is lit while miked up and looking great but which one is easier and way easier to produce.
Well that's going to be by far using a webcam version even if you use a double ender technique.
So which one would you pick.
Well that's clearly up to you.
Again consider your goals and what kind of video product you want to deliver.
Personally I'd say if you're going to do a lot of interviews and you can get these people to come in
person then that's great and do it at least that way you can set up the studio once and like schedule
people back to back or something like that.
But if you're not sure how much you're going to do or you can interview people that are on their side
of the world or just not they don't live where you live then try to just do the webcam version.
And in that case then it's up to you if you want to spice it up whether you want to use a camera an
actual camera instead of your webcam and then just sync that or if you want them to make sure that they
save local versions.
Now also keep in mind that the presentation may be part of the value you're trying to get across and
you may want that glitzy production value that comes from bright lights and a super sweet set that is
actually true.
Sometimes people trust you more.
They're more likely to share something if it looks like a big production it looks like it's done well.
Yes scrappy iPhone videos that are poorly lit or shot on a webcam do go viral and are popular quite
often but sometimes it's kind of the opposite.
Or someone had that they just wouldn't take it seriously.
So try to figure out where you are on the spectrum.
Do you need production value that's really nice.
Looks high quality and really kind of shows off your brand well.
Or are you fine with getting it done and then just focusing on the content and the story how you into
those questions will determine which route you go with.
All right guys there you go.
So with the talk show the interview and the wisdom shot for the last couple of lectures you've got three
very common and effective setups.
Think about Try testing them out and have some fun.
Otherwise guys I'll see you in the next lecture.